## Backend Code structure
The backend follows the MVC structure - that is the model, view and controller

1. The model is the link between the DB and the server
2. The view or route - this is the API endpoint that will be consumed by the public or the frontend and mobile applications
3. The controllers - these are the files that will be holding the whole logic

## API Documentation and responses
Each code should primarily be self explanatory and easily understandable leaving zero to no room for the need of a comment.

Code comments are ok but writing comments should not be the main rule when writing code. ```i = i + 1;         // Add one to i``` is an example of un needed comment in the code. Comments should be written when the function is extremely hard to understand or so very important in the functionality that everyone should take note. In most cases since we are all developers and we claim to have a realistic understanding of codebase then comments should be there when extremely needed or important.

In this case the comments should be concise, direct and explaining the issue at hand. The shorter in this case its better to avoid cluttering the code base. Code comments should be commented out before pushing to any environment may it be staging, development or production

Every API should send a status according to provided status codes. Every 2** status should have a message i.e ```{ message: "the message" }``` for post, patch, update methods which have no expected body. The other 2** status codes should return ```{ data: data }``` with the data being the data that the API was expecting.

If one has an error the API should always return ```{ message: "error message communicating the error", error: error}``` the error is the error as generated by the API

## Naming Conventions
Naming of functions and variable goes a long way in informing the other developers what the function or the constant is. Always avoid repeating a constant name even when one is local and the other global. Always have your constants and function names explain what they do e.g ```const someFunction``` is extremely dangerous since the name does not inform what the function does. A good naming convention is e.g ```const allUserData``` this might be long but the name informs the next person what the function or the constant does.

#### Functions
all function should be in ```camelCase``` this includes exported functions and global functions. e.g ```function addNumbers(a,b){ return a+b }```

#### Local variables
all local variables should be in ```camelCase``` or ```lowercase``` when its only one word that is used for the variable e.g ```const myData = "my data"``` or ```const data = "this is my data"```

#### ENV variables
all environment variables or global constants should be in ```UPPERCASE``` or ```SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE``` this includes all exported constants e.g ```PRODUCTION_SERVER="localhost"``` or ```const PASSWORD = "password"```

#### routes and paths
all routes should have a lower case  and when the route has 2 words the in should be in ```kebab-case``` e.g ```/users``` or ```/all-users```

#### special cases
during coding one might find that you might need to have a local variable e.g ```first_name``` or ```last_name``` in this case its ok to use the ```snake_case```
